# Machine Hack - Renew Power Hackathon

## Problem Statement:
Unplanned downtime of wind turbines can result in a significant loss of revenue and energy and can easily scale to millions of dollars a year. It is therefore pivotal that flagging of the failure of components is made to prevent further loss and perform maintenance.It, however, involves replacement of components and higher costs. Condition-based monitoring systems rely on supervisory control and data acquisition systems to predict faults and get valuable insights into the turbine’s performance.

In this hackathon, ReNew Power shared minute-wise normalised data of wind speed, power and temperature data for multiple components of a wind turbine.

## Objective:
- The company is looking to create a model to get an ideally functioning turbine’s expected rotor bearing temperature. It will then use the model to check the deviation of the actual rotor bearing temperature of the faulty turbine from the expected temperature. 

## Dataset Description:

1. timestamp - Timestamp at which the observation was recorded
2. active_power_calculated_by_converter - Active Power Calculated by the converter
3. active_power_raw - Active Power
4. ambient_temperature	Temperature - Environment Temperature reading from temperature sensor.
5. generator_speed - Number of rotations by generator wheel per min
6. generator_winding_temp_max	Temperature - Temperature of wire windings of generator
7. grid_power10min_average - Average(10 Min) Power generated
8. nc1_inside_temp - Temperature inside Nacelle
9. nacelle_temp - Temperature outside Nacelle
10. reactice_power_calculated_by_converter - Secondary Power generated by wind turbines at output source
11. reactive_power - Secondary Power generated by wind turbines at input source
12. wind_direction_raw - Wind Direction
13. wind_speed_raw - Average wind speed
14. wind_speed_turbulence - Variation in Wind Speed
15. turbine_id - Id of various turbines
16. Target - Rotor bearing temperature
